# Mesh Control Plane
## Istio Pilot Update, Upgrade & Deployment 
The [templates](./templates) directory contains the Istio k8s resources auto-generated from the [Istio helm charts](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/install/kubernetes/helm/istio) using [Replicated Ship](https://github.com/replicatedhq/ship) and [Internal Istio Upgrade Tool](https://git.soma.salesforce.com/servicemesh/istio-upgrade). 

The [`istio-init-ship`](./istio-init-ship) directory contains Ship's workspace to convert `istio-init` helm charts to [yaml with embedded jsonnet variables](./istio-init-ship/rendered.yaml). The Istio Upgrade tool converts this single yaml which contains multiple Istio resources to separate jsonnet templates and populates them in [`templates/phase1/istio-init-autogenerated`](./templates/phase1/istio-init-autogenerated) directory. 
If there are changes in `istio-init`, first create and apply a PR for `istio-init-ship` changes in SAM pipeline before moving on to `istio-ship`. 
`istio-init` contains initialization resources which are required by Istio. So, it needs to be applied before other standard Istio resources.

The [`istio-ship`](./istio-ship) directory contains Ship's workspace to convert `istio` helm charts to [yaml with embedded jsonnet variables](./istio-ship/rendered.yaml). The Istio Upgrade tool converts this single yaml which contains multiple Istio resources to separate jsonnet templates and populates them in [`templates/phase1/istio-autogenerated`](./templates/phase1/istio-autogenerated) directory.

[`./build.sh`](../build.sh) converts the auto-generated jsonnet templates to yaml with SAM config values populated in place of the jsonnet variables.

**Notes:**
1. Files that end with **.TEMPLATE** suffix are not processed by the build script.
1. Some files in the templates directory are added manually like the `Policy` object till we find a better place for it.

### Upgrade Specific Steps
1. To prevent Ship from auto-upgrading base each time we update overlays, Ship is pinned to specific commit.
1. Find the commit corresponding to the [release we are upgrading](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases/).
1. Update the commit in [`istio-ship/.ship/state.json`](istio-ship/.ship/state.json) & [`istio-init-ship/.ship/state.json`](istio-init-ship/.ship/state.json) `upstream` attribute.
1. If there are repo aliases defined in the new verions's helm requirements 
[like this example](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/1.1.0-snapshot.6/install/kubernetes/helm/istio/requirements.yaml#L64) 
then you may need to [read this GUS work item](https://gus.lightning.force.com/lightning/r/ADM_Work__c/a07B0000005zh55IAA/view) 
before running `ship update --headed`.
1. Run `ship update --headed` in both the directories following the steps below.
1. Ship has old `values.yaml` stored in state.json. Update to new values in the Step 1 as required. Copy contents of new values.yaml and paste. 
A copy of the same values with Mesh Control Plane defaults is in [`istio-helm-mcp-defaults`](./istio-helm-mcp-defaults) which helps to check diff during upgrade.

### Update/Upgrade and Deployment Steps (Skip steps as required based on the action)
1. If updating Istio images, update the new image as required in Helm values for [istio](./istio-helm-mcp-defaults/istio-values.yaml) or [istio-init](./istio-helm-mcp-defaults/istio-init-values.yaml). Run `ship update --headed` and copy these values to the helm values entry. This process is manual as of now, something that can be automated in future. 
1. If updating the estates Istio runs on, update the [istio-pilot-estates.json](./istio-pilot-estates.json).
1. If updating overlays, ensure [Ship is installed](https://github.com/replicatedhq/ship#installation), navigate to [istio-ship](./istio-ship) directory and run `ship update --headed`.
1. If updating overlays, complete all the steps in Ship's visual UI. Jsonnet variables in overlays can be represented as `mcpIstioConfig.<name>` or `%(<name>)s`. Where, `<name>` is the variable name defined in [`istio-config.jsonnet`](./istio-config.jsonnet).
1. Run [`./generate-istio-templates.sh`](./generate-istio-templates.sh) script. This will auto-generate jsonnet templates in [templates](./templates) directory based on the [rendered.yaml](./istio-ship/rendered.yaml). This script can be executed from any directory using relative path.
1. Run [`./build.sh`](../build.sh) script in [`k8s-in` directory](../). This will generate the k8s yamls in [`k8s-out` directory](../../k8s-out) as per the estates.
1. If you would like to verify the generated k8s resource files, apply them directly to your local k8s cluster or to prd-samtest only. Ensure you are in the intended kubectl context.
1. Create PR for review.
1. Once the PR is authorized, the SAM TNRP pipeline should take care of the deployment. Use the links mentioned in [SAM Auto Deployer](https://git.soma.salesforce.com/sam/sam/wiki/Debugging-SAM-Auto-Deployer) to check the deployment progress and errors.
1. Verify Istio deployments and Istio test apps are running fine based on the steps mentioned below.

### Verification
Istio test apps are deployed in `prd-sam` in `service-mesh` namespace. Please ensure the apps are running as expected after any modifications. Once metrics support is added, we will add alerts for the same.
```
$ kubectl config use-context prd-sam
Switched to context "prd-sam".

$ kubectl -n mesh-control-plane get pods -o wide
NAME                                     READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE       IP               NODE
istio-ingressgateway-584b455c6b-q27cw    2/2       Running   0          1d        10.251.130.103   shared0-samminiongater1-1-prd.eng.sfdc.net
istio-routing-webhook-58db4957fb-cv8bj      2/2       Running   2          3d        10.251.161.41    shared0-samkubeapi1-1-prd.eng.sfdc.net
istio-routing-webhook-58db4957fb-qksm8      2/2       Running   0          3d        10.251.163.174   shared0-samkubeapi2-1-prd.eng.sfdc.net
istio-routing-webhook-58db4957fb-tdw4n      2/2       Running   0          3d        10.251.161.202   shared0-samkubeapi3-1-prd.eng.sfdc.net
istio-pilot-7b6946ff78-6447v             2/2       Running   0          18h       10.251.131.38    shared0-samminiongater2-4-prd.eng.sfdc.net
istio-sidecar-injector-f59875c8c-7kpm6   2/2       Running   0          1h        10.251.161.195   shared0-samkubeapi3-1-prd.eng.sfdc.net
istio-sidecar-injector-f59875c8c-st84v   2/2       Running   0          1h        10.251.163.165   shared0-samkubeapi2-1-prd.eng.sfdc.net

$ kubectl -n service-mesh get pods | grep istio
istio-fake-casam-5db6587dc6-92tx8                       4/4       Running                        0          4d
istio-fake-casam-na35-86f5bff859-9nrkw                  4/4       Running                        0          4d
istio-geoip-77dc849555-ksb4n                            5/5       Running                        1          4d
istio-ordering-54945d5b49-br2p7                         4/4       Running                        0          3d
istio-ordering-mixed-istio-to-sherpa-7d6fd45bbb-d6khw   4/4       Running                        0          4d
istio-ordering-mixed-sherpa-to-istio-67fcb69f57-2g5tg   2/3       Running                        4          4d
istio-shipping-7bd9467875-6n9rz                         4/4       Running                        0          4d
istio-shipping-mixed-istio-to-sherpa-6ddb77b4d9-4jl6k   4/4       Running                        1          4d
istio-shipping-mixed-sherpa-to-istio-64f799c4dd-qt9bl   5/5       Running                        0          4d
```

The app definitions can be found in the [service-mesh team manifests](https://git.soma.salesforce.com/sam/manifests/tree/master/apps/team/service-mesh).

### Phased Deployments
1. All auto-generated and manually created/edited jsonnets should go into a sub-directory in [phase1](./templates/phase1) directory only. 
All subsequent phases are auto-created by the script [promote-istio-templates.sh](./promote-istio-templates.sh). 
This script accepts 'from' phase and 'to' phase as input arguments. 
It can be executed from any directory using relative path. 
Example:
```
# To promote istio templates from phase 1 to 2, run:
./promote-istio-templates.sh 1 2

# To promote istio templates from phase 2 to 3, run:
./promote-istio-templates.sh 2 3

``` 
It generates the phase directory under [templates](./templates) if required and auto-populates the jsonnets with the required phase filter. 

2. The phase filter is defined in [istio-phases.jsonnet](./istio-phases.jsonnet). The corresponding release image tags are defined in [istio-releases.json](./istio-releases.json) 

3. Once the script successfully completes, run [build.sh](../build.sh). 
*Important:* If you do not run `./build.sh` for all estates but for specific estates like `./build.sh prd/prd-samtest,prd/prd-sam,par/par-sam`, 
please ensure that you include all the estates that have jsonnet templates. Without it there is a risk of the jsonnet variables affecting other phase templates inadvertently. 
